I hope from the genesis of your love that you are overwhelmed by how easy it was for them to break the walls you built specifically to keep someone out.

I hope you find the strength to be vulnerable again, to allow them to drown you in their love - to annihilate any iota of doubt in your heart that you would never find love.

I hope moonlight shines down on you as you call them and talk the nights away caressing the leaves of your bedside plant simulating touch on your fingertips. 

I hope the mere mention of their name summons swarms of butterflies inside you.

I hope that when you meet them for the first time, they bring your favourite flowers in a neat bouquet held together with a red ribbon. 

I hope the first hug you share will be uncomfortably long, yet it completes you - akin to dropping the last piece of a jigsaw puzzle in place.

I hope their soft fragrant perfume intoxicates and corrupts your memory forever.

I hope they tuck your dangling strands of hair behind your ears, close their eyes and gently touch foreheads together.

I hope all sound around you fade away and you can hear the slow rhythmic thumping of your heart.

I hope you melt at the touch of their warm skin and relish in the explosions of euphoria in your head. 

I hope you sit across each other and watch as the best shades of blush light your cheeks up.

I hope they slide their hand across the table with their palm facing upwards, eager to intertwine fingers with you.

I hope they look into your eyes and rub the back of your fingers with their thumb.

I hope you share a warm meal and a cold drink. Hopefully the first of many in this lifetime.

I hope you share a dessert, two spoons parting fluffy pastry aside and occasionally working together to break a piece apart.

I hope you take a picture together to immortalize this moment forever.

I hope you sit there holding hands and talking until they have to close the place for the night.

I hope they wait for your cab ride home to pick you up. 

I hope they embrace you and bid goodbye while you lock your hands behind theirs while holding the bouquet of flowers, they got you. 

I hope a wave of melancholy hits you as you pull away, this is too little time spent together.

I hope they call you once you've both reached home to wish you good night.

I hope your pupils dilate as you look at the vase of flowers by your beside. 

I hope you cry tears of relief as you feel your faith in love return to you.
