I. Alfa Romeo
Enzo Ferrari, former salesman and racing driver for Alfa Romeo establishes a racing team - Scuderia Ferrari. Alfa Romeo eventually pulls out of racing, yet Enzo builds a successful team that runs under the Scuderia Ferrari banner and unofficially represents Alfa Romeo. 

II. The Prancing Horse
In the late-1930s, Enzo Ferrari has a disagreement with Alfa Romeo and decides to leave. He sets up a supplies shop, building parts for other racing teams. 

World War 2 breaks out, Enzo is forced to convert his shop to feed the fascist war machine. He gets bombed by the allies and relocates to the Italian town of Maranello. 

1947 - the second World War is over, Enzo Ferrari decides to start selling cars with his name on them. Ferrari is born.

Four years later, Ferrari would win his first world championship while also beating his old bosses at the dominant Alfa Romeo racing team.

Ferrari is the only team to remain continuously present since the introduction of the Drivers World Championship in 1950.

"Ask a child to draw a car, and certainly he will draw it red" 

III. The Raging Bull
An Italian farmer's son going by the name of Ferruccio Lamborghini races over the weekends and tinkers with old machines to make them race-viable. Racing is expensive and he has little interest in helping his family's agricultural endeavors. He decides to build tractors which are lighter, smaller, and more fuel efficient than his competitors.

His tractors are a hit. They make him a wealthy man. A man who can afford the fastest machines on the road of his time - Ferraris. 

Ferruccio owns several Ferraris, yet he is not satisfied with the way the car drives. He brings it up with the man himself, Enzo Ferrari. 

Enzo berates him, how can a mere tractor manufacturer understand his beautiful red racing machine. 

Annoyed, Ferruccio sets out to build a car that can beat Ferrari - Automobili Lamborghini is born.

The Lamborghini 350 GT was the first production car they made and it was a commercial success - establishing the company as a viable competitor to rival Ferrari. 

IV. Ford GT
The year is 1963, in Italy - In spite of their near perfect record at the 24 hours of Le Mans, Ferrari is having trouble staying afloat. 

In Michigan, Ford executive Lee Iacocca is tasked with increasing sales on new cars and gets an idea. 

Ford flies from Michigan to Italy - to buy Ferrari, borrow some designs, slap a Ford badge and make some money.

Enzo Ferrari plays them like a fiddle and baits Fiat into offering a higher price than Ford. After wasting Ford's time all day, the sun sets and Enzo Ferrari rejects Ford's deal. And he, once again, berates someone. This time it was Lee Iacocca.

Lee returns to Michigan and wants to hurt Enzo at his own game. He convinces Henry Ford II and commissions Thomas Shelby to build a car that can beat Ferrari at Le Mans. Thomas Shelby, a prior Le Mans winner, joins forces with friend Ken Miles, who he claims is the best driver for the job. 

Over the next three years, Thomas Shelby and Ken Miles craft the Ford GT to perfection. 

The year is 1966, Henry Ford II is at Le Mans to flag the race off. After an explosive, eventful 24 hours - Ford finish 1-2-3. Ferrari has fallen.

The Ford GT goes on to become one of Ford's iconic racing machines built both for the track and for the road. 

V. Pagani Automobili Modena
Horacio Pagani is a curious young mind in Argentina. Held back by being stuck in a rural town - he still designs and builds a Formula 3 car at the ripe age of 20.

Renault offer him a job to improve their racing car and Horacio knocks it out of the park. Horacio goes to Lamborghini and showcases his talents. They turn him away.

Persistent, he shows up again. Eventually, they hire him to clean floors and do the odd errand. He moves to Italy and starts working his way up. 

Horacio works his way all the way up from factory sweeper to chief engineer of Lamborghini.

Always fascinated by new materials and cutting edge designs, Horacio asks Lamborghini to procure a device called an autoclave that allows one to shape carbon fibre. Horacio believes in the material and wants to incorporate it in Lamborghini's upcoming car.

Lamborghini refuses. They say, Ferrari does not use one - so we do not need one.

Horacio borrows money to buy an autoclave of his own. He leaves Lamborghini and sets up Pagani Automobili Modena in 1988.

1999, Geneva - Pagani debuts the Zonda - which gets its name from the swift winds of the Andes blowing down into Argentina.

2010, Germany - The Pagani Zonda R beats the Ferrari 599XX to become the fastest lap holder at Nürburgring. 

One can argue that if Alfa Romeo and Enzo Ferrari never parted ways, there would never have been any iconic red rocket ships, any raging bulls, a gran turismo icon and any quadruple exhaust bedroom posters.
