SPOILERS AHEAD!!!
I recommend watching Oppenheimer before reading any further.

---x---

I. Theory will take you only so far 
A restless mind bound to a clumsy body; 
Poisoned fruit dismissed with wormholes by the man who wrote one of the first papers on wormholes. 

The uncertainty of theory, the joy of disproving theory with half a haircut. Mingling with socialism and repeatedly buying flowers for the landfill. 

Artful glimpses into the subatomic paired with Ludwig performing escalating notes of symphony just to taunt us by naming the track "Can You Hear The Music". 
 
II. The Great Improvisor 
A secret city built with haste in a barren desert which always cools at dawn. 

Collecting the brightest minds in the country without having the security clearance to see the results of their work. 

The frustration of compartmentalization and the sting of the last goodbye to a lover. 

A fishbowl filling up with marbles and an early Christmas present. 

Five-and-a-half minutes of hearing Ludwig elevate the violin to set up for mankind's first horror beyond comprehension. 

III. Salmon and Potato Salad
The fat lady has sung, shoes have been thumped, faces have been melted, a black gloved hand makes an appearance.

Moral petitions are shot dead and live cities are spared by honeymoons. 

World peace is delivered by two green trucks crossing the desert. Security clearances are questioned by insisting grey men. 

A mere hearing, not a criminal court. It is the wielder of the sword, not the maker. 

A public testimony, a private hearing. Not to prove, but to deny. 

The punished genius clutches his prize and the lowly shoe salesman does not scrape through. 

---x---

"Prometheus stole fire from the gods and gave it to man. For this he was chained to a rock and tortured for eternity." 
The first sentence in the movie describes the movie better than I ever could.

In my books, this is the ‘Goodfellas’ of science movies. The new peak of non-linear story telling. 
A grand result truly the sum of its parts – acting, visuals, soundtrack, writing. 

I am going to watch this again on IMAX before it goes out – and I will watch it again when it comes online. 
This is, undoubtedly, going to be added to the list of annual rewatches. 

I know my review was considerably different from yours but I agree with everything you said, especially “…the greater conversation is the story, not the storyteller.”

For the past 7 days, I have been listening to the entire album on repeat, reliving each moment in the movie. Ludwig truly has bottled emotion and converted it into song.

A masterpiece.
