SPOILERS AHEAD!!!
I recommend watching Oppenheimer before reading any further.

---x---

The Spy At Los Alamos

Cut to grey, an emergency AEC Advisory Committee meeting has been called. Lewis Strauss, chair of the AEC, is disturbed by the findings that the Soviets have detonated an atomic device. Oppenheimer suggests it may have been a plutonium implosion device. Strauss confronts him saying this soviet nuclear bomb is similar to the one he built in Los Alamos. Strauss brings up the issue of security at Los Alamos, he is concerned at the possibility of a spy at Los Alamos who might have leaked the bomb's designs to the Soviets. Oppenheimer says security was tight and that Strauss wasn't at Los Alamos. Kenneth Nichols, a subordinate of General Groves who doesn't entirely see eye-to-eye with Oppenheimer, says but he was at Los Alamos.

A group of scientists are gathered at Los Alamos discussing ways to detonate the nuclear bomb. Nichols is also present in the room. One of the scientists suggests an implosion device.

Groves meets Oppenheimer with the British contingent of scientists and introduces him to Klaus Fuchs. Oppenheimer asks Fuchs how long he has been British, Fuchs answers "Since Hitler told me I wasn't German".

Oppenheimer is distraught at the loss of his ex-lover Jean Tatlock, he is amidst the scientists (including Fuchs) of Los Alamos - they seem to be arguing on concerns of radiation on the sole woman shown to be part of the team. Progress has also been slow, Edward Teller refuses to work on calculations for the implosion lenses. He seems determined to continue with his research of the 'super'. Annoyed, he walks out. Oppenheimer assigns Fuchs to take over Teller's work.

A group of scientists (again, with Fuchs) and General Groves have gathered to witness the first on-screen detonation of an implosion lens. The group has braced themselves behind the cover of a small mound of dirt some distance away from the implosion lens. George Kistiakowsky, one of the scientists, has a detonation device in his hand. He looks around him to ensure everyone is behind cover. He notices Fuchs sticking his head out and tells him to lower his head. They detonate the device and Kistiakowsky is overjoyed - a successful test.

Cut to grey again - a dingy office hosting a closed hearing, the furthest away from a media trial - Oppenheimer's security clearance renewal hearing. Roger Robb is questioning Oppenheimer's connections to communists, specifically his brother. Oppenheimer says he had absolute trust in his brother not sharing classified intel to communist connections. Robb questions Oppenheimer's judgement on whether he knew who could be trusted on his team.

The very next scene, we are back at Los Alamos, the same group from the previous implosion lens has gathered. This time they are further away and behind a wooden barrier. Kistiakowsky, once again, asks Fuchs to lower his head. A bigger detonation is implied, debris flies up and falls on the group. Groves urges for haste and completion of the bombs by July, not August. Oppenheimer agrees for a test in July.

The AEC Advisory Committee has advised against the development of the 'super', instead advising on arms talks with the Soviets. President Truman rejects their advice and approves the development of the 'super'. Oppenheimer is at Strauss' son's wedding. Troubled at the arms race that has just started, the usually charismatic scientist is not in a congratulatory mood at the wedding. Strauss tells him there was no way to know it. Oppenheimer, confused, asks Strauss to know what. Strauss breaks the news to Oppenheimer - Klaus Fuchs, the British scientist who was put in charge of the implosion lenses, was found to be a Soviet spy.
